README.md, before:

# Overview: 🌎
This repository features a **bare-metal I2C driver** and application level code written in **C** for the Nucleo-L476RG. It is designed to read temperature and pressure data from a BMP390 sensor. The purpose of this project is to develop and showcase **low-level programming** skills without reliance on HAL or abstraction libraries - with everything being **configured directly from the STM32L4xx Reference Manual** (RM0351). The goal is to demonstrate a solid baseline understanding of embedded systems programming, along with the various tools required to accomplish the task. 

- _YouTube_: Video presentation in progress...

## Features: ✔️
- I2C Communication at 85kHz with clean, sharp waveform.
- Single-byte read support for BMP390 chip id (0x60), status (0x70, if data is ready), and pressure data (sensor registers: 0x04-0x06)
- User LED feedback: Slow blink for successful program execution, fast blink if error(s) occur.

## Hardware Requirements: 🧰
- **MCU:** Nucleo-L476RG (STM32L476RG).
- **Sensor:** BMP390 Breakout Board - Adafruit or Amazon variants have both been tested and verified to work.
- **Pull-ups:** 2.2kOhm on SCL and SDA. Ideal communication and waveform results may vary dependent on your hardware setup and capacitance characteristics.
- **Power:** PC supplied USB-power to Nucleo board. Nucleo board supplied 3.3V VDD to sensor.
- **Configuration:** SDO tied to GND (slave addr: 0x76). CSB tied to 3.3V (I2C Interface Selection).   

## Build Instructions: 🛠️
- **Install** ARM GCC toolchain: `sudo apt install gcc-arm-none-eabi`
- **Clone** repo: `git clone https://github.com/mwfraczek/baremetalsense.git`
- **Build**: `make`
- **Flash**: `st-flash --reset write bin/main.bin 0x08000000` or use STM32CubeIDE

## Status: 📈
- **Current**:
  1. Successfully reads first 3 data bytes (0x04-0x06) with LED feedback. 
- **Challenges**:
  1. Multi-byte read fails to ACK second-byte transmission, and subsequently hangs/stretches. Debugging in progress.
- **Next Steps**: 
  1. Target 100kHz with clean waveform.
  2. Implement hardware-based delays for precise timing, minimizing CPU cycle waste.
  3. Resolve multi-byte read issue.
 
## Directory Structure: 📂
    .
    ├── bin
    ├── build
    ├── drivers
    │   ├── bmp390.c
    │   ├── i2c.c
    │   └── peripherals.c
    ├── inc
    │   ├── bmp390.h
    │   ├── i2c.h
    │   ├── peripherals.h
    │   └── stm32l476.h
    ├── linker.ld
    ├── Makefile
    ├── README
    └── src
        ├── main.c
        ├── startup.s
        └── system.c

## Contributions: 👤
- **Author:** Michael Fraczek
- Open to feedback!

Commit message:

Update README.md with timer implementation

README.md, after:

# Overview: 🌎
This repository features a **bare-metal I2C driver** and application level code written in **C** for the Nucleo-L476RG. It is designed to read temperature and pressure data from a BMP390 sensor. The purpose of this project is to develop and showcase **low-level programming** skills without reliance on HAL or abstraction libraries - with everything being **configured directly from the STM32L4xx Reference Manual** (RM0351). The goal is to demonstrate a solid baseline understanding of embedded systems programming, along with the various tools required to accomplish the task. 

- _YouTube_: Video presentation in progress...


## Hardware Requirements: 🧰
- **MCU:** Nucleo-L476RG (STM32L476RG).
- **Sensor:** BMP390 Breakout Board - Adafruit or Amazon variants have both been tested and verified to work.
- **Pull-ups:** 2.2kOhm on SCL and SDA. Ideal communication and waveform results may vary dependent on your hardware setup and capacitance characteristics.
- **Power:** PC supplied USB-power to Nucleo board. Nucleo board supplied 3.3V VDD to sensor.
- **Configuration:** SDO tied to GND (slave addr: 0x76). CSB tied to 3.3V (I2C Interface Selection).   


## Build Instructions: 🛠️
- **Install** ARM GCC toolchain: `sudo apt install gcc-arm-none-eabi`
- **Clone** repo: `git clone https://github.com/mwfraczek/baremetalsense.git`
- **Build**: `make`
- **Flash**: `st-flash --reset write bin/main.bin 0x08000000` or use STM32CubeIDE


## Directory Structure: 📂
    .
    ├── bin
    ├── build
    ├── drivers
    │   ├── bmp390.c
    │   ├── i2c.c
    │   └── peripherals.c
    ├── inc
    │   ├── bmp390.h
    │   ├── i2c.h
    │   ├── peripherals.h
    │   └── stm32l476.h
    ├── linker.ld
    ├── Makefile
    ├── README
    └── src
        ├── main.c
        ├── startup.s
        └── system.c


## Status: 📈
- **Current**:
  1. Successfully reads pressure data bytes (0x04-0x06) in single-byte read function calls with LED feedback. 
- **Challenges**:
  1. Issues achieving targeted 100kHz communication frequency. Currently oscilloscope verified 85kHz. 
  1. Multi-byte read fails to ACK second-byte transmission, and subsequently hangs/stretches. Debugging in progress.
- **Next Steps**: 
  1. Target 100kHz with clean waveform.
  2. Implement hardware based delay function for precise, non-blocking delays. ☑️ _(see Implementation Notes)_
  3. Resolve multi-byte read issue.


## Implementation Notes: 📓
#### TIM2 Hardware Delay Implementation: 
To enable precise, non-blocking delays BMP390 reads and LED feedback: 
1. Select clock source to drive System Clock (RCC selection sets SYSCLK).
   - Note: RCC_CFGR can prescale SYSCLK before TIM2 prescaling.
   - SYSCLK feeds AHB bus, which feeds APB1 (TIM2 on APB1).
2. Disable Slave Mode Controller in SCMR register to control relevant CR1 (CEN, DIR) and EGR bits (UG). 
3. Define relevant counter configuration registers with chosen values (PSC, ARR, CNT). 
4. Set UG bit in EGR register to apply configuration settings.
   - Note: ARPE bit in CR1 should be set _**IF**_ ARR register is to dynamically used/changes while TIM2 is operating. 
5. Set CEN bit in CR1 to enable TIM2 counter. 
6. Implement ‘delay_ms’ function leveraging TIM2 hardware timer for precise, non-blocking delays. 

## Contributions: 👤
- **Author:** Michael Fraczek
- Open to feedback!
